# Veteran-focused Integration Process (VIP)

## VIP Release Process Training


VIP is the new, lean process for work delivery in OI&T.

VIP is supported by:

* * A single portal for project requests – VIP Request (VIPR)
* A single, simplified Release Process – VIP Release Process
* A single, authoritative, unified Calendar POLARIS (Planning and On-Line
Activity/Release Integration Scheduler)
* Tools that support the functions, above:
	* Intake for IT projects (via VIPR, initially a Microsoft SharePoint-based application)
	* Calendar (initially, a Microsoft SharePoint- based application)
	* Time-tracking for all OI&T resources (via Oracle Primavera Progress Reporter)
	* Enterprise Portfolio Management (via IBM Rational Collaborative Application Lifecycle Management (CALM) Project/Product Data Repository)


VIP employs the Agile Project Management Methodology.

* Requestors express requirements in Epics, Sub-epics, and User Stories.
* Requestors submit Epics and User Stories to initiate VIP via VIP Request (VIPR).
* The Portfolio Manager, Product Owner, and Receiving Organization determine if the request becomes a project at Critical Decision #1.
* If the project is approved at CD#1, the VIP Release Process begins.
* Build/Development work is done in 2-week Sprints for no more than a total
of 3 months.
* Project Team has Daily Scrums to provide quick status and plan updates.
* Project Team has Sprint Planning, Backlog Grooming, and Sprint Review
Ceremonies throughout the Build/Development cycle.


VIP Workflow [image]

1. EPICS -> Initiation
2. PROJECT PHASE:  project planning (CD1: project release) -> contract award / onboarding
3. PRODUCT PHASE:  build and development (CD2: product release) -> release preparation
4. SUSTAINMENT:  

CD = critical decision




#### Epics required

– Business
– Architecture/engineering
– Security
– Infrastructure/Support
– Sustainment
– Service /Operational Level Agreements (SLA/OLA)
– IOC sites selected and MOUs in place
– Others as required for the particular effort


Other required artifacts

* Project charter
* Project Management Plan
* Project Financial Plan


During Contract Award and On-boarding, a Release Agent is assigned to
monitor your release.

* The Project Team adds the planned Release to the Release Calendar.
* The Release Agent ensures that the Project Team has the complete list of
product data deliverables.
* The Project Manager establishes a Product Account in the Rational Tool repositories, if one does not already exist. Contact  Rational@va.gov.
* The PM ensures that the Release Agent has access to the Product Account.
* The Project Team’s Configuration Manager and Testing Manager obtain training in the use of the Rational Tool repositories, if necessary. Contact Rational@va.gov.


Throughout the Build/Development phase, the Release Agent monitors the data in the repositories.

* Throughout the Build/Development phase, the PM ensures that the Configuration manager and Testing Manager are managing necessary product data appropriately in the tool’s repositories.
* The Release Agent provides feedback to the Project Manager, the
Configuration Manager, and the Testing Manager.
* The Release Agent collects certain metrics at the end of each Sprint.
* Near the end of the Build/Development phase, the Release Agent provides the status of the product data to the three decision-makers: the Portfolio Manager, the Product Owner, and the Receiving Organization.
* At CD#2, the three decision-makers determine if the Release Candidate can be released into production.*
*IOC evaluation or full release, if no IOC evaluation is included


IOC evaluation or full production installation occurs.

* During IOC or full production deployment, product changes are updated in repositories.
	* Significant issues or severe defects that necessitate changes to requirements are reported to the decision-makers, who determine if product will be backed out or deployed nationally.
	* 	If backed out, Release Candidate returns to appropriate step in the VIP Process.
* If national deployment is successful, 90-day Product Warranty begins.
	* The Product Warranty covers everything stated in the requirements.
	* Transfer of knowledge and transition of product into sustainment occurs.
* At the end of Product Warranty, transfer of ownership occurs and is recorded in the tool.


Configuration Manager records “as-built” data in the Rational Tool.

Release Agent evaluates release metrics.

Subsequent releases, defect repairs, upgrades, and all other production releases to
the product go through the VIP Release Process.


As-Is Release Processes | To-Be Release Process
---|---
10+ Review Groups and Processes | 1 Review Group
50+ Steps | 4 Steps
30+ Categories of Data | 6 Categories of Data
Data Duplicated across Artifacts |Data Element Entered Once, Updated as Necessary, Used Multiple Times, as Needed
Late-stage Review | Continuous Feedback throughout development
Multiple Email Messages and Reports concerning Status | Approval and Product Ownership Recorded in 'the Tool'




* Other required artifacts
	*  Project charter
	* Project Management Plan
	* Project Financial Plan



### Agile process
* Epics required
	* Business
	* Architecture/engineering
	* Security
	* Infrastructure/Support
	* Sustainment
	* Service /Operational Level Agreements (SLA/OLA)
	* IOC site

* Other required artifacts
	* Project charter
	* Project Management Plan
	* Project Financial Plan



## Will request become a project?

Decision Makers:
– Portfolio Manager
– Product Owner
– Receiving Organization


* On CD#1 approval
– Contracts awarded, team formed
– Configuration Manager trained in Rational Tools
– Release Agent assigned
– Project Manager ensure access to repository


* CD#2 review
– Product Team build data placed in repository
– Release Agent monitors reviews, provides feedback on build
– Release Agent reviews, reports on status of build data to Decision Makers*
– Decision Makers determine if build acceptable for production release
* Once approved, no changes allowed to requirements
– If approved, build moves to Release Preparation and Execution


* If IOC
– Track changes, monitor significance
– Deal with any issues


### Contacts

* Contact VA ESE Release Office  vaESEreleaseoffice@va.gov .


* Attend any optional recurring Friday 1PM training session. Contact
vaESEreleaseoffice@va.gov and ask to be invited to the
recurring optional ERF training.
